# STEMREM205-Project
## Janella Schwab, Antonio Salcido-Alcantar, Samuel King

Repository for STEMREM205 group project (W2024) at Stanford University. <br>

### Contents

[`harmony_integration`](link): Contains the scripts necessary to load the PDAC patient data and integrate it using Seurat and Harmony. Also contains summary data of PDAC tissue cellc counts. <br>
[`cnv_analysis`](https://github.com/janeschwab/STEMREM205-Project/tree/main/cnv_analysis): Contains the genome position and cell type annotation files required to run inferCNV. <br>
[`taxa_assignment`](https://github.com/janeschwab/STEMREM205-Project/tree/main/taxa_assignment): Contains the scripts and data required to assign sample labels in the anonymized PDAC data from Steele et al. (2020) to the processed taxa data from Ghaddar et al. (2022). Also contains scripts and data for microbial diversity analyses.

### Description of data
#### Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) data
-  Anonymized PDAC patient data from Steele et al. (2020) was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (accession number [GSE155698](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE155698)) with the original file name 'GSE155698_RAW.tar'.
-  The downloaded data contains feature x cell barcode information for three healthy tissue samples (AdjNorm_TISSUE_#) and 17 PDAC tissue samples (PDAC_TISSUE_#). In our analysis, we only used the PDAC tissue samples.
#### Single-cell-associated microbial taxa data
- The processed Seurat object from Ghaddar et al. (2022) containing microbial taxa x cell barcode information generated by the SAHMI pipeline was downloaded from the [SAHMI Github repository](https://github.com/sjdlabgroup/SAHMI/tree/main/PDAC%20data) with the original file name 'steele_microbiome.RDS'.

### References
- Ghaddar, B., Biswas, A., Harris, C., Omary, M. B., Carpizo, D. R., Blaser, M. J., & De, S. (2022). Tumor microbiome links cellular programs and immunity in pancreatic cancer. *Cancer Cell*, 40(10), 1240-1253.
- Steele, N. G., Carpenter, E. S., Kemp, S. B., Sirihorachai, V. R., The, S., Delrosario, L., ... & Pasca di Magliano, M. (2020). Multimodal mapping of the tumor and peripheral blood immune landscape in human pancreatic cancer. *Nature Cancer*, 1(11), 1097-1112.
